---
title: Contributing to the PoyoWeb!
description: If you're interested in contributing to the PoyoWeb, and are not sure where to start, this is the guide for you!
author: Tori
date: 2025-01-06
keywords: ["tutorial", "contributing", "guide"]
---

## Contributing to the PoyoWeb

The PoyoWeb is a passion project that is developed by the community, so it has a major reliance on people willing to contribute to the project. In this guide, you'll learn how to set up your own instance of the PoyoWeb for testing, and how to make and merge changes to the site.

***Note:*** This tutorial assumes a working knowledge of JavaScript, and is not intended for beginners.

### Prerequisites

- Nodejs >= v22.11.0
- A github account
- Working knowledge of git
- A unix-based system OR Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

### Step 1: Forking the Repository

While there is more than one way of cloning/forking the PoyoWeb repository, this is my chosen method of doing so. If you know what you're doing, feel free to ignore my ramblings and do it yourself, the PoyoWeb encourages creativity!

The PoyoWeb repository is hosted on GitHub, so the process of forking is quite simple. Simply go to the respository [here](https://github.com/MrDaPoyo/poyoweb), and click on the `Fork` button (and don't forget to star the repo while you're there!)

Now, you have two main choices to begin making changes:
- Clone the repository using git
- Download the source code on GitHub

Both of these options will allow you to access the files locally to edit the site as you please.

### Step 2: Setting up the Environment

In order to locally host an instance of the PoyoWeb, you must first configure the necessary environment variables. In order to do this, create a file in the root folder of your instance called `.env`. In order to host the instance, the following variables **must** be set:
- `URL_SUFFIX`: The suffix of the URL expected by the server. (Recommended value: `localhost:8080`)
- `URL_ENTIRE`: The entire URL of the site's root. (Recommended value: `http://localhost:8080/`)
- `API_URL`: The URL that API calls are directed to. (Recommended value: `http://localhost:9000/`)
- `AUTH_SECRET`: A secret value used for authentication. (Recommended value: `superdupersecretsecret`)
- `ADMIN_URL`: The URL of the admin panel. (Recommended value: `localhost:8080/admin`) ***Note:** The admin panel does not seem to work on local instances.*
- `ADMIN_FULL_URL`: The full URL of the admin panel. (Recommended value: `http://localhost:8080/admin`)
- `DNS_URL`: The URL of the DNS. (Recommended value: `dns.119844.xyz`)
- `DNS_GENERATE_SSL_CERT`: A boolean value. Should be set to `false`.
- `USER_MAX_SIZE`: The maximum size of a website for a user. (Recommended value: `524288000`)
- `SERVER_IP`: IP address of the server. Leave blank.
- `CONFIG_MAX_USERS`: The maximum number of users that can be registered. (Recommended value: `100`)

Your `.env` file should be looking something like this:
```
URL_SUFFIX=localhost:8080
URL_ENTIRE=http://localhost:8080/
API_URL=http://localhost:9000/
AUTH_SECRET=superdupersecretsecret
ADMIN_URL=localhost:8080/admin
ADMIN_FULL_URL=http://localhost:8080/
DNS_URL=dns.119844.xyz
DNS_GENERATE_SSL_CERT=false
USER_MAX_SIZE=524288000
SERVER_IP=
CONFIG_MAX_USERS=100
```

### Step 3: Hosting the development instance

You're now good to go! You should now be able to host your PoyoWeb instance by typing `sudo node .` in the terminal at the root of the PoyoWeb repository on your filesystem.

If you have not used Nodejs prior to this, there is a high chance you will recieve an error saying that a dependency was not found - however this can be fixed by running `npm install <package>`, replacing `<package>` with the name of the missing dependency.

You should now be able to visit the locally hosted site in a browser of your choice, assuming it is on the same device. If your `.env` is set up the same as above, head to `http://localhost:8080/`, and the PoyoWeb should appear! It should be noted that no sites on the real PoyoWeb will exist on your instance, as the full database is hidden away from public view.

### Step 4: Making your first change!

You now have a full development environment set up and configured for the PoyoWeb. Now you're ready to start changing things! Don't worry if things don't go well first try, no one is a perfect programmer!

Here is a general guide to the files you'll likely be working with in the repository:

- `locales/translations.json` - Contains translations and data such as Contributors.
- `admin.js` - Contains functionality related to the admin panel.
- `client.js` - Contains clientside code that sends API calls to the server.
- `server.js` - Contains serverside code that handles API calls.
- `db.js` - Contains all code that interacts directly to the Database through SQL queries.
- `domains.js` - Contains code that redirects the browser and serves files based on the URL.
- `mailer.js` - Contains code responsible for sending emails to users.
- `poyoweb.db` - An SQLite3 database that contains all stored information.
- `printdb.js` - A utility that prints all the data in the database.
- `views/` - A directory containing all of the main pages.
- `tutorials/` - A directory containing Markdown files that give guides such as this one.
- `websites/` - The directory that contains all of the websites hosted on the instance.

Now, let's give it a test! Open `views/index.ejs` in a text editor of your choice. You will be faced with the following:
```ejs
<%- include('header.ejs') %> 
<% if (locals.loggedIn) { %>
<% } else { %>
<% } %>
<p><b><%- t("index.aboutus") %></b></p>
<p><%- t("index.aboutuscorpus") %></p>
<ul>
	<% const perks = t('index.perksList'); %>
  	<% perks.forEach(perk => { %>
    	<li><%= perk %></li>
  	<% }); %>
</ul>
<%- include('footer.ejs') %>
```

Let's add a header between the `about us` and the perk list! Add the following to the page:
`<h1>Hello, World!</h1>`, then save the file and reload the page.

Tada! You have just made a change to the PoyoWeb, however it's not really something that should be pushed to the main repository. In order to find issues that people are having, or to ask further questions, check out the PoyoWeb [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/WE9Nq3FGgK).

### Step 5: Credit Yourself!

Once you have made your amazing contribution to the PoyoWeb, remember to credit yourself before submitting your changes! This ensures that every contributor gets the credit they deserve for making amazing changes!

To do this, simply open `locales/translations.json` and add your name/alias and some information in the `contributors` section, alongside everyone else! Feel free to write a short sentence about yourself or your changes (and you can even leave a link to your site!), before saving the file.

### Step 6: Submit a Pull Request!

Congratulations! You're almost done! Now there's only one thing left to do: Submit your changes for review! Go back to your fork of the Github Repo and upload your changed files (Make sure to commit your changes!), and then click on the `Contribute` button to create a Pull Request. Give a title and a description of your changes, and then submit the request.

The fate of your changes are now in the hands of Poyo, who will review and suggest/make any necessary alterations to your contribution, before merging or denying your pull request.

If the request is approved, congratulations! When the site is next updated, your changes will be seen by all! You are now a Contributor to the PoyoWeb!
