---
title: State of the site - January 2025
description: An update on newly implemented features, and the things to come.
author: Tori
published: Thu, 16 Jan 2025 15:00:00 GMT
keywords: ["intro"]
---

## Introduction
Hello, World!
Once a month, We will be making a post detailing new features and our plans for the near future. This will allow us to get feedback on new things before we implement them, as well as showing our commitment to complete transparency.

Plenty has happened so far this month, with plenty more goodies soon on the way! So, what's been going on?

### Site Redesign
As you may have noticed, the layout of the PoyoWeb has changed drastically over the last week or so. This is part of a large series of changes we have been making to make the PoyoWeb truly special.
We have been experimenting with different layouts and mockups, and have plans to implement a theme selector to allow you to choose your style!

We hope you enjoy our new layout, but please don't hesitate to criticise it (how else will we make it better?)

### Site Browser
One of the new features that have been implemented is a <a href='/browse'>site browser</a>. This allows sites on the PoyoWeb to be discovered by other users and visitors. In the site dashboard, you can now set a site Title and Description, as well as upload a site thumbnail, all of which will be shown in the browser. Please be aware that the browser is still in development and is subject to change. If you have any suggestions or issues, please let us know in the <a href='https://discord.gg/WE9Nq3FGgK'>Discord server</a>!

### PoyowebRing Integration
Anyone who has visited my <a href='https://tori.poyoweb.org'>personal site</a> will be aware of the PoyowebRing. In the interest of increasing connectivity between sites on the PoyoWeb, this webring is now completely public, and integrated into the PoyoWeb. The process of joining the Webring has also been simplified - simply go to <a href='/poyoring'>https://poyoweb.org/poyoring</a>, and fill in the necessary information. I will then personally review your site before adding it to the ring. All you need to do is sit back, relax, and wait for further instructions!

## Future Plans
- <a href='https://poyo.study'>Poyo</a> is currently working on a guestbook service for PoyoWeb sites.
- <a href='https://tori.poyoweb.org'>Tori</a> is currently working on a blogging service for PoyoWeb sites.
- Plans for a site forum are in discussion.


Thats all for today! We will try to keep you updated through future blog posts and updates in the discord server.

-- Tori
